Copyright 2008 SQL Power Group Inc. All rights reserved.

Power*MatchMaker is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.

Power*MatchMaker is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program (see the LICENSE file).  If not, see
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Linking Power*MatchMaker statically or dynamically with other modules
is making a combined work based on Power*MatchMaker.  Thus, the terms
and conditions of the GNU General Public License cover the whole
combination.

In addition, as a special exception, SQL Power gives you permission to
combine Power*MatchMaker program with free software programs or
libraries that are released under the GNU LGPL and with the standard
releases of the the Java(TM) Transaction API (JTA), JavaHelp(TM), and 
JavaMail (TM) reference implementations from Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
(or modified versions of such code, with unchanged license). You may 
copy and distribute such a system following the terms of the GNU GPL for 
Power*MatchMaker and the licenses of the other code concerned.

As an additional special exception, SQL Power gives you permission to
use Power*MatchMaker together with publicly available JDBC drivers
whether or not they are licensed compatibly with the GPL.

As a final special exception, SQL Power gives you permission to use
Power*MatchMaker together with any release of the JUnit test
framework, which is licensed under the Common Public License (CPL).

Note that people who make modified versions of Power*MatchMaker are
not obligated to grant this special exception for their modified
versions; it is their choice whether to do so.  The GNU General Public
License gives permission to release a modified version without this
exception; this exception also makes it possible to release a modified
version which carries forward this exception.


Additional Restrictions for the Bundled SQL Server 2005 JDBC Driver

The MatchMaker is bundled with Microsoft's JDBC driver for Microsoft
SQL Server.  That driver (the file sqlserver_2005.jar) is distributed
under these additional restrictions:

1. You may not redistribute copies of the MatchMaker download which
   includes the Oracle and/or Microsoft SQL Server JDBC drivers.  If
   you wish to redistribute the MatchMaker, you must obtain and
   distribute the version which does not include these bundled drivers.

2. You may not publish benchmark information about performance related
   to your use of any of the 3rd-party JDBC drivers.

3. You may not reverse engineer, de-compile, or disassemble the 3rd
   party JDBC drivers.

4. You must comply with all domestic and international United States
   export laws when downloading and redistributing the software.  In
   particular, you may not download the MatchMaker which includes bundled
   3rd-party drivers to, or allow your copy of the MatchMaker with 3rd
   party bundled drivers to be exported to a country on one of the
   export-controlled countries lists.
   
   For details, see http://www.microsoft.com/exporting
