#summary Notes for Power*MatchMaker 2.0
#labels Phase-Requirements

= Introduction =

The Power*MatchMaker 1.0 development line suffers from some overlooked requirements and design details. This document is meant to note these and other things that we need to keep in mind when we start designing Power*MatchMaker 2.0 


= Details =

  # *Multiple Users* - Power*MatchMaker wasn't designed to account for multiple users working on the same project. As a result, certain concurrent actions between multiple clients could result in serious problems, such as multiple users running multiple engines at the same time in a project.
  # *Adaptability to changes in the source database schema* - Power*MatchMaker was not designed to account for possible changes in the source schema. (I, for one, didn't think a user would be putting production data to be cleansed in a frequently changing schema, but we've run into at least one user who was doing this). We implemented some fixes for this after the main application design, but I think we can do a lot better if we design the whole application to account for such possible changes.
  # *Object-Oriented merge engine and improved UI* - We have some ideas for simultaneously simplifying and improving the internals of the merge engine in the same way we did for the match engine when we switched from match groups to munge processes. In addition to helping cover off the last few corner cases where the current engine can't do a cascading merge, the new system would also make it possible to create a much better user interface for defining merge rules. This new UI would look very much like the Power*Architect playpen, but users would see merge rules instead of data types beside the column names.