#summary A list of potential things to fix for Power*MatchMaker 0.9.4 RC 2.

==Notable Power*MatchMaker Commits since RC 1==
  * (Committed) r2026 - Fixed date comparison to work with java.sql.Date/Time/Timestamp in addition to java.util.Date. Added tests to ensure this behaviour doesn't break over time
  * (Committed) r2027 - Fixed bug that made it impossible to create a repository in MySQL


==Notable Not-marked-as-fixed Power*MatchMaker bugs in BugZilla since RC 1==
  * Bug 1649 - User-defined custom unique keys on the match table doesn't get saved with the project. If you load the project, only the existing unique keys get loaded. The user-defined key is saved in the repository, but is not loaded. This appears to be fixed in that your unique key will be saved as long as it's the set source table unique key. If not, then it gets lost, but fixing that may require modifying the repository schema, which I think is too large a change to be introducing between release candidates, so I would say this would be a works-for-me/won't-fix.
  * (Fixed in 2020 in the trunk, and then backported to 0.9.4 in 2021) Bug 1650 - Power*MatchMaker throws NPE if clicking on 'Pick Columns' button on a match table with no unique key (this may have been fixed already)
  * Haven't reproduced this error yet but: http://www.sqlpower.ca/forum/posts/list/2089.page


==Notable Commits to SQL Power Library since RC 1 that may affect MatchMaker==
  * 636 - Removed check for missing username in attempt to get SQL Server integrated security logins working
  * 696 - Split up DBMD wrappers for SQL Server 2000 and 2005 because optimal way of listing schemas is different between the two platforms. See http://www.sqlpower.ca/forum/posts/list/0/1788.page for details.

==Notable Not-marked-as-fixed Bugs in SQL Power Library since RC 1==
  * Bug 1693 - Need SQL Server driver to strips parentheses from default value. WONTFIX because there is no foreseeable benefit for the MatchMaker.