#summary A discussion regarding how the MatchMaker application should handle changes to the source table.

= Details =

August 5, 2008 Meeting Notes:
  * Suggestion is to segregate the source table change adaption code into classes separate from the normal merge engine logic so that all the adaption logic is in one place, rather than being 'baked into' the regular logic.

  * The 'adapter' should traverse the items in the MatchMaker project tree and determine what items might need to be fixed, and try to fix them, while also asking the user for clarifications where necessary.

List of Items to Fix
  # Munge Process input steps outputs and inputs.
  # Add/remove column merge rules for addition/removal of columns.
  # Change column merge rules actions for primary key changes.
  # Change result table for primary key changes.
  # Update imported key columns in column merge rules for child merge rules with source table as parent table.
  # Update project and source table merge rule for index changes.


August 8, 2008 Group Discussion:
  * We've taken a first attempt at the issue and submitted an implementation of a feature that checks and fixes the project in the case of a source table change.
  * However, we've discovered a severe issue with this implementation. Changes made to the source table would only be identified if the change was made while the Power*MatchMaker was running. This is because the business object within the Project that holds the reference to the source table is loaded in from the database at each startup of the application. The feature's check will then compare that business object to the table on the database. So, changes made after the last startup of the app would be identified and changes made before would not.
  * A better approach to the problem would be creating a new project on the physical table and making the necessary changes from there. However, one problem with this approach is that the new project would not have any child merge rules. A crude solution to this would be to keep the original merge rules if the unique key index has not been changed, and to drop them if it has changed.